# PhoneBook-Java
This Java Program builds upon the Groceries Program which is available in the repositories, it uses the Array List data structure and consists of three classes. The program allows the user to print, add, remove, update and query their contacts list as well as print out all their available choices via the use of a switch case statement. The first class Contact.java contains the getters for the name and phone number and contains the createContact() method which is called upon in the other classes. It also has a constructor which takes in the name and number and initializes them. The second class MobilePhone.java is where all the manipulation of the ArrayList for each of the methods is held. This class is where the Array List 'myContacts' is declared and called upon and shows the inner working of the class which you would want to be hidden from the user. Here each method will use one of the two findContact() methods in order to locate the particular contact and if found will output the appropriate line of code. Most methods work fairly similarly, the add and remove methods search for the contact and either add or remove depending if they already exist or not. The printContacts() method consists of a for loop which goes to the end of the ArrayList and outputs the names and phone numbers of all contacts on record. The updateContact() method was the one which I had to look at the solutions for as I was unsure how to go about coding it. The final class which contains them main statement is MainPhone.java; this class handles all the user inputs (Scanner) and is what the user will see when the program is executed. Depending on which case statement the user picks a series of user inputs display which ask for the name and phone number etc. This information is then passed to MobilePhpne.java where it is then processed and inputted into the Array List as appropriate. The idea to create this program came from an Udemy course I was completing and this was a challenge task and therefore I cannot accept full ownership of the code as at certain points I did have to look at the solutions in order to progress which was mentioned earlier with the updateContacts() method. However I was able to complete the majority of the problem myself, and I learnt a lot developing this small program.  
